Welcome back in the section we're going to introduce some essential concepts in unit testing will first
understand what Jasmine and unit tests are.
Well then define what you describe it and expect keywords do as well as what matters and spies are all
then write better tests with before and after hooks and test asynchronous code using clocks and callbacks.
Finally we'll compare and contrast different parenting styles and rate solid unit tests with jazzmen.
But why are we learning this.
You might not appreciate the value of testing as much right now but when you work on larger applications
and with others it becomes essential as you begin writing more complicated functions and larger applications
you're bound to make mistakes and you're not alone.
Even professional programmers make mistakes all the time when your programs grow.
They can become difficult to reason about and as hard as you may try it's impossible to predict every
bug in your program.
Fixing bugs also has a cost as it can be quite easy for one fix to introduce bugs into other parts of
your application.
So how can we avoid having our programs become more brittle and difficult to maintain as they grow in
complexity.
The solution to this problem lies in testing our code as thoroughly as possible starting with unit tests
which test parts or units of an application.
The idea here is to test things individually to ensure that they are running properly.
So how do we get started writing tests.
The first thing we need is some framework or library to help us write and run our tests.
The second thing we need is a way of describing the code we are testing.
If we just write some test code we might not really understand from a behavioral point what we are testing
or even why we are testing it.
Finally we need a tool that allows us to make assertions or expectations about our code.
So where does this all come from.
One answer is Jasmine.
Jasmine is a testing framework that comes with everything we listed above to help us test our code.
It works with all kinds of javascript environments like the browser and no J us and it has a very simple
and friendly syntax to get started with for these examples will be working in the browser and when we
continue with no guess you'll see the exact same syntax.
But for testing server side or back end applications.
Finally there are quite a few other tools for unit testing javascript.
You may have heard of ones like Mogae and try and even though we'll be using Jasmine.
It's not very different from other testing libraries.
Once you know how to use one of them well it's very easy to transition to others.
So let's see how to get started using jazzmen.
The first thing we'll do is create an each TNL file and link the CSSA and Javascript tags here and then
we can start writing our casts.
Here's what the HDMI looks like with the proper links and scripts.
We can save this file and see what it looks like in the browser.
This code is included in the section notes along with the code Penn. link which you can check out below.
Let's see what this looks like in the browser.
Here we do not have any tests running but we already have a friendly interface with some nice VSS loaded
from jazzmen.
Not only does jazzmen provide a framework to write tests it also provides a nice interface for us to
see what tests we are running in the browser in the next video.
We'll discuss some essential syntax for writing tests and jump right into writing a few tests with jazzmen
zealot.